CONTROL WIRING
All control wiring will be in conduit and/or plenum rated not in conduit where allowed by code
as specified.
All mechanical rooms or exposed spaces will be in conduit.

Ethernet Communications:
CAT6 wiring shall be used for floor level networks to Siemens room controls
Where BACNET MSTP is required 1.5 pair TS cable shall be used



BLN

Siemens BAS APOGEE / Desigo CC (future)
Siemens standard communications for FSU for this project will be BACNET via IP as coordinated with FSU.
Server / workstations are existing
Siemens Apogee/Desigo CC Software updates are not provided under this project. 
Additional Siemens Apogee/Desigo CC Software licenses as required for building addition to Campus systems are not provided under this project. 
This building is connected to the campus "Insight " server and will be moved to the Desigo CC "E&G" server in the future under scope of separate project. 
All building graphics will be new.
All existing non-IP BLN controllers shall remain as is, where is, unless noted otherwise in this submittal. 


FLN

All new DXR FLN equipment shall reside on IP FLN network. 
All existing non-DXR and/or IP equipment shall remain as is, where is, unless noted otherwise in this submittal. 

All 3rd party energy meters shall be provided by others with BACnet IP communication protocol (default). Siemens shall coordinate integration to 3rd party energy metering with responsible party. 

Communication to VFDs and HHW System-10 BTU meter shall be via BACnet MS/TP (default). 
Refer to estimated FLN path dwg for details. 


CONTROL POWER

Siemens shall deliver 24VAC control power to all FLN Devices furnished by Siemens.
Energy meters shall be self-powered. 
Where noted, control valves may require 120VAC power, to be provided by job E.C. 
120VAC and above not by Siemens.
FCU controllers to receive individual 120/24VAC step-down transformers.
All other DXR equipment shall receive 24VAC power via power trunks wired to 500A or 300A enclosed XFMR cabinets with 5 or 3 100VA Class 2 outputs respectively. 
Refer to estimated power trunk path dwg for details. 
